the most dangerous form of propaganda
is that propaganda which neither the
broadcaster
nor the members of the viewing public
perceive to be
a carefully contrived propaganda message
in the last few weeks
i have heard numerous news broadcasters
reassure me that what happened in the
year 2016
would not happen once again in the year
2020 that we were not looking
at polling data that would grossly
misrepresent
that would utterly fail to forecast
the outcomes of the election it happened
in 2016
it happened again in 2020 i'll be honest
with you i think
every single one of those journalists
was being sincere
i think every single one of the
pollsters
political scientists professional
commentators
career academics i think every single
one of them
was being sincere i think none of them
were aware
of the extent to which they are
participating in propaganda
and sadly most of us in the audience
do not stop to reflect the extent to
which we're watching propaganda
medical doctors quite apart from trying
to convince you
that a particular operation is the right
operation for you
or particular medication is going to
solve your problem
medical doctors are constantly engaged
in a kind of propaganda
in order to reassure themselves and
reassure the public
that their credentials are
unquestionable
there's propaganda for the social status
of medical expertise as such and the
education that confers that credential
to a much greater extent the social
status of a political scientist
of an analyst of a commentator of a
pollster of the polling data itself
the financial value of a poll
is entirely created through marketing
through mass information misinformation
through propaganda
right how much would you pay for a poll
that tells you anything whether it tells
you how many people
want to buy a new cell phone or tells
you how many people want to
vote for donald trump all right the
value of
the poll the value of social science
research is almost entirely created
through this kind of propaganda that we
all bathe in
through the mass media every day i heard
it stated with absolutely no irony
on a news broadcast within the last 48
hours uh well you know
in the past there were only three or
four
respected companies that really did this
kind of polling in the united states
and today there were more than a hundred
really respected firms
that are engaging in this kind of
polling and social science research
they can't all be wrong
yes they can
yes all the psychiatrists
can be wrong about antidepressants
yes you know a whole profession a whole
industry a whole department found on
university campuses around the united
states of america they can all
be wrong about prozac
and apart from your faith in the
particular medical doctor the particular
psychiatrist the particular medication
the particular treatment right
there is this deeper underlying faith
that a man in a lab coat that a
professor of psychiatry a
professor of the arts and sciences of
human consciousness that they know what
they're talking about that they are
to be trusted and indeed that they
deserve a salary
in excess of a hundred thousand dollars
a year just to sit and listen
to you talk about your problems talk
about your nightmares talk about your
childhood trump how much
how much is that worth right how much is
a poll worth
how much is political science worth how
much are the social sciences worth
all right there is a type of propaganda
in this sense
going on all the time that most of the
broadcasters are not
aware they're engaged in and most people
in the audience are not aware that
they're engaged in
should have been the death of polling as
we
know it i'm not naive enough
to think that 2020 will finally mark
that date
when finally mark in the calendar when
the american public
lost faith in polls and when the clients
and the journalists and the newspapers
who paid for these polls
lost faith in what is now called polling
in prior videos certainly four years ago
i think about two years ago also i
delved into in some depth
what people have been accustomed to call
polling
and have pointed out that it no longer
is truly a poll
and you could pass a law you know in the
same way that you know there's a legal
definition of what is and is not butter
what is and is not orange juice some
products the label has to say orange
drink
orange flavored refreshing beverage
because it doesn't legally qualify its
orange juice
there is a question of how do you define
a poll and should we restrict the notion
because a very large percentage of
what's now presented as polling
information in
newspapers and magazines if you read
through the fine print and you click on
the link or you look up on the internet
the details of the poll you will find
that
the reality is they sent out an email to
people who are
paid or given coupons to
participate in these kinds of
consultations on a regular basis
that in fact this does not in any way
resemble what you may
imagine as a stereotypical poll in the
1950s
which would either involve phoning
people while they're sitting at home
uh eating their dinner or would involve
actually confronting people face to face
with a clipboard you may be thinking of
the the census method you know used by
the u.s census these these kinds of
things
believe it or not that kind of research
is now considered tremendously expensive
it's considered expensive
to pay someone to walk door to door and
deal with people face to face
as opposed to sending out an email and
promising people some coupons or
discount or payment of this kind
so they'll take a minute and sit there
on the internet and click through
click through some boxes all right
if we can really accept that polling is
dead
that this whole profession that this
whole academic discipline
has been discredited at least to the
same extent
that the historical experience with
prozac and antidepressants
discredits mainstream psychiatry
mainstream therapy
so so on and so forth i think we can
begin again
we can begin again and ask what is it
that people like me
were supposed to learn when we were
majors
in political science in university i
guarantee you if you just start making a
checklist we didn't learn it it wasn't
taught to us
and you know what is the definition
of legitimate social science research
how is it that we establish a fact
even if it is a fact as simple as what
percentage of people in ohio
what percentage people in pennsylvania
what percentage of people in
minnesota and so what percentage of
these people are going to vote for
for donald trump all right one of the
most fundamental forms of progress
in western society during my lifetime is
the progress
in labeling today
you pick up a can of soup an enormous
wealth information
is found in that soup the ingredients
yes when i was a child
they didn't even list the minor
ingredients by the way
there were lawsuits and court challenges
and wrangling and you know
this democratic process to get them to
list each and every ingredient
so you get each and every ingredient you
get the breakdown of the protein of the
fat
the nutritional value um you learn about
other contaminants that may be present
in the factory but
not in the food it's an enormous amount
of information
on the label okay political information
is a product and we haven't yet
progressed to the point of having
labeling that really tells you
what goes in to that soup